Now in this module we're going to introduce you to configuring Spring Controllers.
What we need to do is associate a controller method with a request path. That's when Spring gets requests
on a specific path a specific controller method will get invoked.
Now in our example what would you want the controller to do is go to the database, get a list of books,
and return it over to the view.
Now to configure a controller in Spring we're going to agitate the class with the controller annotation.
This will tell Spring to manage that class as a Spring Bean and that it is a Spring MVC Controller.
Now to set up the request path, we are gonna use the annotation request map mapping to tell Spring to
associate a path with a controller method.
In this module we are just going to look at configuring the controller to return Dad to The View and
next video we're going to take a look at the actual view layer. So I'm going jump over to IntelliJ now and
show you how to wire up a Spring Controller.
So the first thing I want to do when I'm adding a controller I like to add a package for controllers.
I've seen some Spring projects where they get a little scattered and that's confusing for two people
coming in.
So I like to create a new package and just call it controllers like so.
And then a nice naming convention is just do book controller so that tells you the purpose in life of
this class.
We will add that to Github. What we want to do here is let's do public string and we'll just to
get books and what we want this to do is return back.
This is going to be the view name so we're going to say books and we'll configure this in the actual
view in the next video.
So it's very simple method and now let's start adapting this to actually be in an actual controller
within the terms of the Spring Framework.
So I'm going to come up here and let's annotate it with the controller.
This is the Spring stereotype which tells the Spring Framework our intent is to make this into a Spring
MVC Controller.
Now we want to map this to a specific URL. The way we do that, we're going to use the request
mapping annotation. We're going to say request mapping and we just need to give it the path.
So we're just going to do slash books. So when we do an action against the URL of books this method
is going to get invoked by the Spring MVC framework.
Now what we want to do here is pass in the model.
Remember Spring MVC Model View Controller.
So we have the controller and we want to bring in the model and we'll just call that model.
So this gives us the model object.
And keep in mind this is what is going to get returned to the view.
So the view is gonna get a copy of the model.
Now we want to enhance that model with a list of books.
So to do so what we want to do is come in here. Let's do private final.
So we want to bring in an instance of the book repository.
So what we're asking the Spring Framework to do is inject a book repository and I'm going to generate
a constructor command N to bring that up.
And now because I have a constructor on that, this is a Spring managed component because it is controller
when Spring instantiate this it will inject an instance of that book repository into our controller.
Now what we can do here is grab our model and we're going to do an ADD ATTRIBUTE, just one attribute.
So we're going to use this here attribute name and attribute value. We'll just simply call out books
Now we're going to say our book repository and we're just going to simply say Find all. So now this is going
to do is at runtime when Spring gets a request to the URL slash books it is going to execute the get books
method and it's going to provide that method a model, a model object, and our code is saying for that
model we are going to add the attribute called Books and we're going to get execute book repository
which is going to give us a list of books.
Now this model is going to get return back to our view layer and it's going to have an attribute books
and a list of books on that and then we'll be able to utilize that value inside of our view layer
to apply the necessary view that we're going to be returning back to the client.
So to just quickly recap what we did here is we added a new package called controllers, created a new
class called book controller, and we annotated that class right at the class level with these Spring
stereotype of controller.
We are injecting and using Springs dependency injection. We're injecting in an instance of the book repository
and we set up on line 20 there are requests mapping for Slash books.
So it's going to execute the get books method.
Spring is going to provide in a model and we are using the repository to get a list of books out of
the database, assign it to that review of books on the model, and then we are returning back a string
called books and that is going to till Spring MVC
we want to apply the view books. And the books component the view components what we're going to address
in the next video.
Now what you saw me create there was a very simple Spring MVC Controller.
This is about as simple as they come. Now going forward in the course we are going to get into Spring
MVC a lot more in-depth. Just going through a very simple example here to get your feet wet with Spring
MVC. So, further down in the course we're definitely going to explore Spring Controllers more because
there is a lot more to it.
But for now this is just a very simple example. All you want to do is display a list of books on the
web page. And in the next video we're going to show you the view technology so we can get that web page
displayed.